I have worked on the **ImpVis** *(formerly Imperial Visualisations)* project since its inception in summer 2017. The goal of this project is simple, to create a set of interactive visualizations for use in STEM education at Imperial College London. The project is run as an undegraduate research oppertunity *(UROP)*, with an emphasis on a strong partnership between students and staff members.  
<br/>
Since 2017, I have worked on this project continually both as a full time summer developer and a part time developer along side my academic commitments during term time. Working on this project has allowed me to pick up and enhance a wide range of skills from my programming in **JavaScript** and **Python** as well as their associated frameworks including **Django** and **Vue**; to refining my leadership and mentoring ability.  
<br/>
Working with the amazing network of ImpVis collaborators consisting of cross departmental students and staff members has also allowed me to develop my leadership and teaching skills. In the past few years of the project I have served as a technical lead and mentor for new students to the project.  Working as a technical leader, my main objective has been to work towards developing a modern yet approachable platform for students and their staff partners to develop the visualisations on. During the development, we worked as a team to discuss and narrow down different design approaches for how visualizations should be structured to be of greatest educational value both in the context of a student at home and of a lecturer. Being a mentor too my peers has also been a great experience, working collaboratively to help teach other budding developers the skills and tools they need to build their own visualisations.