Out of all the natural disasters on Earth, tropical cyclones are responsible for the highest amount of devastation both to human lives and to economies particularly in the developing world.  As an example, in 2017 Hurricane Harvey resulted in the loss of 107 lives and caused $125bn of damage. The deadliest cyclone in history, Cyclone Bhola, claimed over 500,000 lives and wiped out entire communities.  
<br/>
Each year there are around 100 named tropical systems that form, out of which approximately 10 will be classed as “major” systems with peak wind speeds greater than 110 mph. Developing accurate predictions of  when these storms will form and crucially, how they will intensify once formed remains a challenge for meteorological agencies across the world. 
The eye of the cyclone is located at the centre of a tropical cyclone and is counterintuitively, the calmest region of the storm with clear skies and maximum winds of around 10mph. However, in the ring of clouds surrounding the eye, known as the eyewall, the conditions could not be more different! The eyewall is formed of one continuous thunderstorm cloud where the wind can reach speeds of over 150mph. The scale of the eyewall is immense, as a single cloud it extends vertically to a height of up to 18km and has a circumference of 50-100km.  
<br/>
In our project, we investigated how properties of the clouds in the eyewall are affected by the presence of aerosol, tiny particles typically around 100 times smaller than the width of human hair. These particles can include dust and soot however in this investigation we studied the effect of particles generated by sea spray, which is formed from the breaking of waves and the bursting of air bubbles on the crests of waves. This spray is thought to be composed of many different types of particles from sea salt crystals to even organic matter like phytoplankton! We were particularly interested in sea spray because the effects of this aerosol should only be seen inside the eyewall clouds because the high winds here actively generate more spray by invigorating the ocean surface below.  
<br/>
We investigated the formation of ice inside the eyewall. Contrary to what you may think, liquid water does not instantly turn to ice when it drops below 0°C, in fact water can remain as a liquid up to temperatures as low as -38°C. This is because for ice crystals to form they need a surface to form onto. Aerosols such as the particles contained in sea spray provide this surface and allow warmer freezing than at -38°C. Lower down in clouds, aerosols provide a surface for moist air to condense on to, forming liquid droplets which we see as clouds. High concentrations of aerosol will form more droplets of smaller sizes whilst lower concentrations will form less droplets that individually grow to larger sizes.  
<br/>
To investigate, we used images from the VIIRS instrument which is onboard NOAA’s NPP-Suomi satellite. The satellite is in a polar orbit which allows it to view every point on Earth once every 12 hours. The VIIRS instrument was chosen as it can capture images at a resolution of up to 375m.  The images used were captured at a range of wavelengths in the infrared which allowed us to determine both the temperature and size of particles inside clouds.  

<br/> 
By studying a catalogue of tropical cyclones from 2012-2020, we found that inside the eyewalls the droplet size was smaller than that in the outer reaches of cyclones. In addition, we found evidence that droplets inside the eyewall were freezing at warmer temperatures than at the outer edge. This suggested that indeed there is indeed aerosol present exclusively in the eyewall of intense tropical cyclones.
